# inteluv
A kernel module that allows the user to undervolt Intel CPUs when SecureBoot is enabled.

## WARNING
This module bypasses security checks put in place by the kernel, by allowing userspace applications to write to certain MSRs.  
A whitelist has been put in place to restrict access to said MSRs, but I do not make ANY guarantees about the safety of this module.  
**PLEASE USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.**

## DEPENDENCIES

<details>
      <summary>Fedora</summary>
      ```bash
      $ sudo dnf install \
            kernel-devel \
            kernel-headers
      ```
</details>

## BUILDING

**NOTE**: If you want to use DKMS for automatic module rebuilding, follow this [chapter](#setting-up-dkms). This is also what
I recommend doing for a more seamless experience.

First thing first, you'll have to enroll your own MOK. If you don't know how to do that, either check [this](ENROLL.md) out or 
follow the [Arch Wiki](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Unified_Extensible_Firmware_Interface/Secure_Boot#shim) guide.  

Edit the file named `SIGNING` and replace the fields `KEY=` with the path to your private key (usually ending with \*.priv or \*.key) 
and `X509=` with the path to your public key (usually ending with \*.der or \*.x509). You can leave `HASH=` as is.

After that, make sure you're logged in as root (running the other commands as sudo wont do).

```bash
$ sudo -i
```

Once you've entered your password, run the following commands in order:

```bash
⋕ cd /path/to/inteluv
⋕ make
⋕ make sign
```

And we're done! The module is ready. You should now be able to run `insmod inteluv.ko` as root and `/dev/inteluv` should now exist.  

## SETTING UP DKMS

Before we start, make sure you have [DKMS](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Dynamic_Kernel_Module_Support) installed.  

<details>
      <summary>Fedora</summary>
      ```bash
      $ sudo dnf install dkms
      ```
</details>

Then run the following commands as root. 

```bash
⋕ cd /path/to/inteluv
⋕ make dkms
```

If you enrolled your custom keys (see [this](ENROLL.md)) you also need to edit the `SIGNING` and point it to the appropriate signing  
keys (as explained in the [BUILDING](#building) paragraph). After that run `make dkms-setup` to add the signing keys to DKMS.  

If you didn't enroll your custom MOK, you can enroll the one generated by DKMS (see [this](ENROLL.md#enrolling-keys)).  

Now try rebuilding and loading the module with

```bash
⋕ dkms autoinstall
⋕ modprobe inteluv
```

If there were no errors, then you're done!

## USING WITH intel-undervolt

To allow `intel-undervolt` to use the new module, we're going to have to patch it and build it from source. 
To do that, run the following commands.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/kitsunyan/intel-undervolt.git
$ cd intel-undervolt
$ patch -p1 < /path/to/inteluv/intel-undervolt.patch
$ ./configure --enable-systemd --bindir=/usr/local/bin && make
$ sudo make install # To install intel-undervolt to your system
```

Now try running `sudo intel-undervolt read`. You should get all 0.0mV (or -0.0mV).